Translated by ororo.tv
As the first century
of the Targaryen dynasty
came to a close
The health of the Old King,
Jaehaerys, was failing.
In those days, House Targaryen
stood at the height of its strength
with ten adult dragons
under its yoke.
No power in the world
could stand against it.
King Jaehaerys
reigned over nearly 60 years
of peace and prosperity
but tragedy had claimed
both his sons
Leaving his succession in doubt.
So, in the year 101
The Old King called a Great Council
to choose an heir.
Over a thousand lords
made the journey to Harrenhal.
Fourteen succession claims were heard
But only two were truly considered.
Princess Rhaenys Targaryen,
the King's eldest descendant
and her younger cousin,
Prince Viserys Targaryen
The King's eldest male descendant.
It is declared by all lords paramount
and lords vassal
of the Seven Kingdoms
That Prince Viserys Targaryen
be made Prince of Dragons tone!
Rhaenys, a woman,
would not inherit the Iron Throne.
The lords instead chose Viserys
my father.
Jaehaerys called the Great Council
To prevent a war being fought
over his succession.
For he knew the cold truth.
The only thing that could tear down
the House of the Dragon
was itself.
Dohaeras, Syrax!
Umbas.
Rybas!
Welcome back, Princess.
I trust your ride was pleasant.
Try not to look too relieved, ser.
I am relieved.
Every time that golden beast
brings you back unspoiled
it saves my head from a spike.
Syrax is growing quickly.
She'll soon be as large as Caraxes.
That's almost large enough
to saddle two.
I believe I'm quite content
as a spectator, thank you.
Dohaeras.
Naejot!
Rhaenyra.
You know I don't like you
to go flying
while I'm in this condition.
You don't like me to go flying
while you're in any condition.
- Your Grace.
- Good morrow, Alicent.
Did you sleep?
- I slept.
- How long?
I don't need mothering, Rhaenyra.
Well, here you are,
surrounded by attendants
all focused on the babe.
Someone has to attend to you.
You will lie in this bed
soon enough, Rhaenyra.
This discomfort
is how we serve the realm.
I'd rather serve as a knight
and ride to battle and glory.
We have royal wombs, you and I.
The child bed is our battlefield.
We must learn to face it
with a stiff lip.
Now take a bath.
You stink of dragon.
So, I said to him, "Well, I believe
You might be looking up
the wrong end."
My lords.
The growing alliance
among the Free Cities
has taken to styling itself
the Triarchy.
They have massed on Bloodstone
and are presently
ridding the Step stones
of its pirate infestation.
Well, that sounds suspiciously
like good news, Lord Corlys.
A man called Craghas Drahar
Has styled himself the prince-admiral
of this Triarchy.
They call him the Crabfeeder
Due to his inventive methods
of punishing his enemies.
And are we meant to weep
for dead pirates?